To decide to participate in an Ironman race takes a fair amount of determination, tenacity and guts. To go out there with the knowledge that you are not an elite athlete or maybe not even a so-so athlete takes courage. Hitting the send button on the registration only begins the journey. The double digit runs, the 100 mile bike rides, hours in the pool. All of this to prepare for the uncertain. The uncertain is...will the race be canceled? It can and has happened. Will the race be postponed? That can and has happened. Am I ready? You will find out. What diversity will I face on raceday? These are all unknowns. The only thing for certain is you just spent a lot of money on a maybe. Maybe I will finish...this time.
I have participated in two previous Ironman races. I was a part of the Maryland Ironman in 2016. The swim was canceled and the bike was shortened to 100 miles. I finished it. I really had nothing more to prove. In the minds of the Ironman officials, you are an Ironman. No one can take it away from you. But in the minds of the participants, we felt cheated. The shortened races just leave us feeling empty. We just did more than most people think about doing but we felt like we needed more. Why? None of us can answer that question. Maybe it is because in our circle of friends, we know our race will always have an asterick beside it because it was shortened. This asterick may not be visible but it is there. In our minds, in the minds of our friends that have done a 140.6 mile Ironman. That 126.2 on October 5th, 2016 is just not the same. The conditions on race day were far less than ideal. The bike ride was rainy and windy. We got our swim in when traversing the knee deep water. The tide came in and floode parts of the run. The first "little person" to compete in an Ironman race remarked that the water was "up to his bits." I guess he really did swim the run. But I finished that race. Why on earth did I feel cheated. Why did I feel that I needed to do it again? To this day, I can't answer that question. But I would be back....
When the registration opened for Ironman Louisville 2017, myself and some fellow masochists signed up for another year of uncertainty. And FYI, this is an expensive "hobby." The new year brought a new adventure and many hours of swimming, biking and running. Truthfully, the only real reason we can come up with to continue this "hobby" is because we love the company. Good friends make suffering bearable. We endured 100+ degree heat out at Fort Gordon, our local bike-safe training ground. Out there, we are in more danger of taking ourselves out than being injured by passing motorists. I have been participating in triathlons since 2010 and to this day, I do not feel comfortable sharing the road with cars. The Savanah River is our favorite swimming hole. Well, most of us anyway. Some of us just can't seem to get past the idea that alligators really are in there.